ENIGMA LAB — LOCAL BROWSER DEMO

START FROM A SOURCE CHECKOUT
Install Python 3.12+ and run from the repository root:

    python -B -X utf8 -m enigma_demo

Open the printed http://127.0.0.1:<port>/ address exactly. Do not substitute
localhost: the request guard checks the printed host. Keep the terminal running.
A free port is selected by default. No third-party runtime packages, frontend
build step, remote scripts or dataset downloads are required.

On Windows, the optional PowerShell launcher also resolves paths from its own
location and supports an explicitly selected interpreter:

    .\Start_Enigma_Demo.ps1
    .\Start_Enigma_Demo.ps1 -Python 'C:\path\to\python.exe'

Use -Port 8765 to request a fixed port; an occupied port is refused. A browser
opens only with -OpenBrowser. Use python3.12 instead of python where appropriate.
The program requests shutdown on Ctrl+C; actual console interrupt delivery is
separate from the tested injected-interruption and server/worker-join paths.

A SHORT WALKTHROUGH
1. Load "First five letters", then transform. AAAAA becomes BDZGO. The first
   key changes windows AAA → AAB before the signal. Follow the nine stages.
2. Load "See the double step". AAA becomes DKR. Step through the traces:
   ADU → ADV → AEW → BFX. The middle rotor moves on consecutive presses.
3. Load "Rings and plugboard". BLA becomes KCH with II–IV–V, reflector B,
   rings BUL, windows WXC and the ten included plugboard pairs.
4. Load "Recover the starting windows". A complete search checks all 17,576
   triples and returns AAA. The other settings are known and fixed.
5. Load "One letter, many answers". The complete search retains 714 starts,
   demonstrating why a small fragment need not identify a unique key.

MORE EXAMPLES
- "A fragment at the beginning": 97 letters, first 12 known; early rejection.
  Both UEW and VFW match.
- "The same message, a late fragment": offset 85, baseline selected; the same
  two starts match. They converge to VFX before the first signal for this key.
- "A search with no matches": AAAAA/AAAAA; zero matches after a complete scan.
  The supported reciprocal-reflector machine never maps a letter to itself.

Expectations are saved in enigma_demo/samples.json, independently of the current
HTTP response. Transform expectations come from saved reference cases; benchmark
sample match sets come from the retained complete-search results. Editing a form
removes its old reference expectation and labels computed results as previous.

INPUTS AND RESULTS
Choose three different I–V rotors, left to right (slow to fast), wide B/C reflector,
three-letter rings/windows and disjoint plugboard pairs. The same initial settings
encrypt and decrypt. Every transform starts a fresh machine. ASCII whitespace is
removed and letters are uppercased; other characters are rejected. Each normalized
browser text field is limited to 256 letters.

Search varies only starting windows. The crib is known plaintext at exactly the
specified zero-based offset after normalization. It is not a language-scored guess.
All matching starts are kept; a complete zero-match result and ambiguity are both
valid outcomes.

Only one search runs at a time. A worker invokes the shared APIs on batches of 64
starts. Progress, cancellation and the 60-second deadline are checked between
batches; an executing batch must finish before cancellation takes effect. This
is not a hard real-time deadline. At most eight recent jobs stay in memory.

Cancelled, timed-out or failed jobs have no complete-domain result. Partial matches
cannot establish the full answer. If the browser loses its connection, a job may
still be running on the server; the UI reports the outcome as unknown.

Both strategies search the complete domain. Baseline decrypts each full message.
Early rejection stops a candidate on its first crib mismatch and skips an
irrelevant suffix. Neither stops the entire search at its first match. The
benchmark covers complete-domain API calls, not this batched browser execution;
its timings must not be presented as page or end-to-end browser latency.

LOCAL BOUNDARY
The server binds only to 127.0.0.1 and serves an allowlist of fixed assets. Exact
Host/Origin checks and a per-launch token protect local POST requests. The page
loads no remote fonts, scripts or services. Text, settings and job history stay
in memory and disappear on restart. This standard-library server is a local
demonstration, not a public deployment or modern encryption tool.

TROUBLESHOOTING
- Page stops loading: check that the terminal still runs, then open the current
  printed URL. A remembered port can belong to an earlier launch.
- Search already running: wait for that job or cancel it from its original tab.
- Invalid token after restart: reload to receive the new session token.
- No matches: check fixed settings, normalized inputs and zero-based crib offset.
- Multiple matches: a crib can be insufficient; some starting states converge
  before the first signal, so extra plaintext does not always remove ambiguity.

TESTING AND MEASUREMENTS
TESTING.txt describes repeatable Python checks and browser-coverage limits.
The four-case timing experiment is documented separately in
experiments/search-latency-v1/MEASURED_RESULTS.txt.
