RUN THE ENIGMA SEARCH COMPARISON

The completed measurements are in MEASURED_RESULTS.txt. Repeating the timed
experiment is optional and separate from ordinary tests and the browser demo.
The commands below use the frozen source, inputs and plan in this repository.

With Python 3.12+ selected, run from the repository root:

    python -B -X utf8 experiments/search-latency-v1/benchmark_search.py run experiments/search-latency-v1

The controller verifies all complete candidate sets before timing. It then runs
40 fresh workers sequentially, printing progress after each scheduled job. Each
worker makes one warm-up and two timed searches. A full-domain 97-letter search
requires substantial work; the recorded timings do not promise a future duration.

Keep power mode and power source consistent, record substantial background work
or interruptions, and avoid changing source or inputs mid-run. Optional flags
following the experiment-directory argument record context:

    --power-mode 'your actual mode'
    --power-source 'plugged in or battery'
    --background-activity 'your actual conditions'

These flags record conditions; they do not change machine settings. Omitted
conditions remain unreported. Use the RESULTS_TEMPLATE.txt checklist when sharing
an independently repeated experiment.

If a run fails or is interrupted, retain the error and saved results. Incomplete
runs do not support a complete comparison. Rerunning creates a new directory and
preserves existing attempts. A hash mismatch means the frozen inputs have changed;
do not rewrite the lock to suppress it.

Untimed correctness verification only:

    python -B -X utf8 experiments/search-latency-v1/benchmark_search.py validate experiments/search-latency-v1

The timed run repeats its preflight, so the separate validate command is optional.
EXPERIMENT.txt explains the timer boundary, pairing, statistics and limitations.
Application runtime uses the standard library; no third-party packages are needed
for this benchmark. Match the recorded Python/runtime context when comparing runs.
